Seminar.md, before:

# Answers to the questions we will have from the seminar about AI-tools 11/12-2025 #


01 - 

ChatGPT has answers that goes in very much detail in every step.

If you choose ChatGPT the process of choosing a movie feels overwhelming. Aizo is more comprehensive in the answers. A guiding friend that works.


02 - 

ChatGPT:s structure of its answer is giving actual pseudocode, whereas Aizo is giving back a flowchart in text.
So ChatGPT is more technical and Aizo is more general.

Here is ChatGPT:s answer:

// 1. Ange humör
humor ← fråga_användare("Vilket humör är du på?")

// 2. Välj genre baserat på humör
genrelista ← föreslå_genrer(humor)
valda_genrer ← fråga_användare("Vilka av dessa genrer vill du se?", genrelista)

// 3. Bestäm praktiska begränsningar
max_tid ← fråga_användare("Hur lång film orkar du se (i minuter)?")
plattform ← fråga_användare("Vilken plattform använder du?")

// 4. Hämta kandidatfilmer
filmer ← hämta_filmer(plattform)
filmer ← filtrera(filmer, genre = valda_genrer)
filmer ← filtrera(filmer, längd ≤ max_tid)

// 5. Sortera filmer baserat på preferenser
sorterade_filmer ← sortera(filmer, efter = ["favoritregissör", "favoritskådespelare", "betyg"])

// 6. Välj toppalternativ
toppalternativ ← ta_första(sorterade_filmer, antal = 3)

// 7. Låt användaren se trailers
visa_trailers(toppalternativ)

// 8. Användaren gör val
vald_film ← fråga_användare("Vilken film vill du se?", toppalternativ)

// 9. Spara övriga filmer
spara_i_lista("Att se senare", toppalternativ - vald_film)

// 10. Visa slutligt val
skriv_ut("Du valde att se: " + vald_film)


03 - 

ChatGPT can get confused when you have several different types of files, that needs to be synchronized with eachother (context).
You have to be very specific to have a chance of an appropriate answer (which can be hard).

There are a whole bunch of defferent API:s, and it can be hard for AI to know which one is best for every given scenario.

Persons can have different approaches that all can work, but AI answers one thing, whereas in reality there can be many right answers (logic).
ChatGPT has learned from different peoples questions.


04 - 

They are pretty similar, but Aizo is giving us sentences. ChatGPT is giving us explanations in bullet points, with a summary at the bottom.


05 - 

Question 1 - There is at least some sort of validility in the code, which could be reason for the AI to think that if all it's other suggestions didnt work, then at least to initial one might be the better one.
Theory - Maybe it's starting to learn your code version after so many times seeing it, and suppose it can be a good one.
Maybe the AI is "hallucinating". And then you can get into a "feedback loop", and get stuck there =)

Question 2 - ChatGPT is learning from the questions being asked to it, and therefore learns old techniques if people are asking it about old techniques, and that way of solving their problems.
For example giving back old-style code, div:s.


06 - 

The first time there are alot of details in the explanation, and the second time its less details, and the pedagogy is more directed to guidance and making yourself think and figuring it out yourself, based on it's answers.

Both variants of the answers can be good and useful for different times, but guiding answers can be good as a student, as it pushes you in the right direction, making it easier for you to come up with the final solution yourself.
For small specific things it can on the other hand be good to get a clear anwser, so that you can take that detail in your knowledge to then be able to apply it to a bigger problem.


07 -

The first anwser is giving us a detailed instructions about how you can think to solve it.
The second answer gives you the solution =) Very short.


08 -

It's good for having a friend that youre discussing code with, as guidance, to do right things and find errors. It can give you ideas and inspiration to keep learning ourselves.

Brainstorming can be perfect for getting help and inspiration for AI, having it give you ideas that you can develop further yourself.

In documentation, guidance and intructions in how to do the documentations better and more efficient.

We dont want the AI to answer instead of ourselves. We want to interpret things outselves.


09 -

If your'e overaddicted to using AI, you can risk getting incorrect code, and not have an understanding of the code being sent back to you. Even if you use it correctly there's still a risk to be dependant on the AI to problemsolve. Over-use simply put.

10 -

Pros - it's efficient timewise to use the copilot when you have the knowledge of the code. It also is a good help when finding bugs or faults in your code to find solutions or point out what the fault is.
Con - If you don't know or understand the code its writing for you, there is no way you can keep up. It's always better to learn the code on your own first to be able to use it.

11 -

Small, repetetive code is something that the copliot could help with, if it is something we write often. All code should be understood before using any automation for completing it. 

12 -

We believe that the structure of bulding is what is the most compelling to us. Also that it can give us several possible solutions is a great thing. It looks like it learns how you work your code and will adapt to it when you use it.

13 -

Using AI in the correct way, as a tool or for the repetetive tasks, we as developers can have more time and space to be more creative and use our time for the finer things. We will always be the quality-tester and understand how humans operate in a way an AI cannot.

14 -

Security is something we don't think AI should ever be used for. AI just don't understand how humans function in trying to steal private information, and it is also a question over who has the responsibility (it should be the humans). Using AI in the wrong way, and not checking it, can lead to bugs and faults within the program that noone catches.

15 -

Anthropic Claude 4.5 Sonnet
We asked it to explain what arrays are in javascript and it showed us not only what is, but also how to use it. Details about what kind of datas it can have. Very detailed and well explained showing examples on how to use them.

Deepseek
The first thing we noticed, after the chinese language, was that tends open new tabs, rather than moving forward in the same tab. Otherwise, asking it the same question, it goes straight to the point directly and did give us the same information as Claude did. Somehow, it felt more intimidating.

Google Gemini
Asked same question again. The response was very positive and supportive. It started by explaining generally about arrays before going into more details on how to use them. It didn't have as much content as the others in the detailed explanations but it got the basics. Generally pleassant experiece.

16 -

We believe and feel that the Github copilot would be the one we would use the most in our future work-role. After getting a certain level of knowledge. It will help us to create code more quickly and be more efficient. As a student, at first glance Claude seemed to be really good explainging the topic of our question. Especially in the coding, and other things.

Commit message:

Improve clarity and grammar in Seminar.md
Refine language and clarity in Seminar.md, correcting grammar and enhancing readability.

Seminar.md, after:

# Answers to the questions we will have from the seminar about AI-tools 11/12-2025 #


01 - 

ChatGPT has answers that goes in very much detail in every step.

If you choose ChatGPT the process of choosing a movie feels overwhelming. Aizo is more comprehensive in the answers. A guiding friend that works.


02 - 

ChatGPT:s structure of its answer is giving actual pseudocode, whereas Aizo is giving back a flowchart in text.
So ChatGPT is more technical and Aizo is more general.

Here is ChatGPT:s answer:

// 1. Ange humör
humor ← fråga_användare("Vilket humör är du på?")

// 2. Välj genre baserat på humör
genrelista ← föreslå_genrer(humor)
valda_genrer ← fråga_användare("Vilka av dessa genrer vill du se?", genrelista)

// 3. Bestäm praktiska begränsningar
max_tid ← fråga_användare("Hur lång film orkar du se (i minuter)?")
plattform ← fråga_användare("Vilken plattform använder du?")

// 4. Hämta kandidatfilmer
filmer ← hämta_filmer(plattform)
filmer ← filtrera(filmer, genre = valda_genrer)
filmer ← filtrera(filmer, längd ≤ max_tid)

// 5. Sortera filmer baserat på preferenser
sorterade_filmer ← sortera(filmer, efter = ["favoritregissör", "favoritskådespelare", "betyg"])

// 6. Välj toppalternativ
toppalternativ ← ta_första(sorterade_filmer, antal = 3)

// 7. Låt användaren se trailers
visa_trailers(toppalternativ)

// 8. Användaren gör val
vald_film ← fråga_användare("Vilken film vill du se?", toppalternativ)

// 9. Spara övriga filmer
spara_i_lista("Att se senare", toppalternativ - vald_film)

// 10. Visa slutligt val
skriv_ut("Du valde att se: " + vald_film)


03 - 

ChatGPT can get confused when you have several different types of files, that needs to be synchronized with eachother (context).
You have to be very specific to have a chance of an appropriate answer (which can be hard).

There are a whole bunch of defferent API:s, and it can be hard for AI to know which one is best for every given scenario.

Persons can have different approaches that all can work, but AI answers one thing, whereas in reality there can be many right answers (logic).
ChatGPT has learned from different peoples questions.


04 - 

They are pretty similar. Aizo is giving us sentences. It's not as detailed as ChatGPT but it does have happy and friendly language. ChatGPT is giving us explanations in bullet points, with a summary at the bottom.


05 - 

Question 1 - There is at least some sort of validility in the code, which could be reason for the AI to think that if all it's other suggestions didnt work, then at least to initial one might be the better one.
Theory - Maybe it's starting to learn your code version after so many times seeing it, and suppose it can be a good one.
Maybe the AI is "hallucinating". And then you can get into a "feedback loop", and get stuck there =)

Question 2 - ChatGPT is learning from the questions being asked to it, and therefore learns old techniques if people are asking it about old techniques, and that way of solving their problems.
For example giving back old-style code, div:s.


06 - 

The first time there are alot of details in the explanation, and the second time its less details, and the pedagogy is more directed to guidance and making yourself think and figuring it out yourself, based on it's answers.

Both variants of the answers can be good and useful for different times, but guiding answers can be good as a student, as it pushes you in the right direction, making it easier for you to come up with the final solution yourself.
For small specific things it can on the other hand be good to get a clear anwser, so that you can take that detail in your knowledge to then be able to apply it to a bigger problem.


07 -

The first anwser is giving us a detailed instructions about how you can think to solve it. Guiding us more than giving us a direct answer.
The second answer gives you the solution =) Very short. Basically giving us the answer key.


08 -

It's good for having a friend that youre discussing code with, as guidance, to do right things and find errors. It can give you ideas and inspiration to keep learning ourselves.

Brainstorming can be perfect for getting help and inspiration for AI, having it give you ideas that you can develop further yourself.

In documentation, guidance and intructions in how to do the documentations better and more efficient.

We dont want the AI to answer instead of ourselves. We want to interpret things outselves.


09 -

If your'e overaddicted to using AI, you can risk getting incorrect code. You might not have an understanding of the code being sent back to you. Even if you use it correctly there's still a risk to be dependant on the AI to problemsolve. Over-use simply put.

10 -

Pros - It's efficient timewise to use the copilot when you have the knowledge of the code. It also is a good help when finding bugs or faults in your code to find solutions or point out what the fault is.
Con - If you don't know or understand the code its writing for you, there is no way you can keep up. It's always better to learn the code on your own first to be able to use it.

11 -

Small, repetetive code is something that the Copilot could help with, if it is something we write often. All code should be understood before using any automation for completing it. But after learning the basics, there shouldn't be any problem using Copilot to help us both with completing small tasks or asking it how newer codes work.

12 -

We believe that the structure of bulding is what is the most compelling to us. Also that it can give us several possible solutions is a great thing. It looks like it learns how you work your code and will adapt to it when you use it.

13 -

AI should be used in the correct way, as a tool or for the repetetive tasks. We as developers can then have more time and space to be more creative and use our time for the finer details. We will always be the quality-tester and understand how humans operate in a way an AI cannot.

14 -

Security is something we don't think AI should ever be used for. AI just don't understand how humans function in trying to steal private information, and it is also a question over who has the responsibility (it should be the humans). Using AI in the wrong way, and not checking it, can lead to bugs and faults within the program that noone catches.

15 -

Anthropic Claude 4.5 Sonnet
We asked it to explain what arrays are in javascript and it showed us not only what is, but also how to use it. Details about what kind of datas it can have. Very detailed and well explained showing examples on how to use them.

Deepseek
The first thing we noticed, after the chinese language, was that tends open new tabs, rather than moving forward in the same tab. Otherwise, asking it the same question, it goes straight to the point directly and did give us the same information as Claude did. Somehow, it felt more intimidating.

Google Gemini
Asked same question again. The response was very positive and supportive. It started by explaining generally about arrays before going into more details on how to use them. It didn't have as much content as the others in the detailed explanations but it got the basics. Generally pleassant experiece.

16 -

We believe and feel that the Github copilot would be the one we would use the most in our future work-role. After getting a certain level of knowledge. It will help us to create code more quickly and be more efficient. As a student, at first glance Claude seemed to be really good explainging the topic of our question. Especially in the coding, and other things.
